if you're looking for recession you're
looking at the wrong information I'm
here to tell you why you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
here on this channel what we need to
declare is what is going on right now at
this time how can you ever find out
where you need to go if you don't know
where you are look the stats we're given
are not accurate reality is very
different from what we see presented to
us in the mainstream media yes there are
alternative sources but we got to
understand what is meaning ful to us and
what is Meaningful to the corporations
the central banks and those who are
making the decisions that affect our
lives those individuals are looking at a
certain set of data so in today's video
I'm going to show you what's going on
there and you got to understand there
are two very different stories happening
at the same time if we're not going to
pay attention to both and understand
both of those we are going to be
blindsighted as we move and progress
through 2024 this will be the most
painful year for a lot lot of people
others are going to be able to I don't
like to use the word pivot but they're
going to do so and they going to benefit
from the decisions that are made by all
those who control it all consumer Prices
rose 0.3% in December higher than
expected pushing the annual rate of 3.4%
so what they're telling us is that yes
it is hotter than what was expected the
general trend is still down but you got
to look at it month over month you got
to look at it year over year you also
have to factor in why why did prices
increase the way that they did and what
is the trend so what do we have we have
producer prices we have consumer prices
when we look at producer prices that's
the first thing because imagine if your
input costs were significantly higher
than what they had been before that will
then get passed down into the consumer
product a lot of what the producer price
index you're thinking of let's say the
raw metal that would be then made to use
a product that you buy at the store but
it even factors in things like uh the
fees that you would pay for financial
services like it it's not exactly like
this is a very wide umbrella or net when
you think about it in that respect so
keep that in mind just knowing that the
producer prices that index went
skyrocketing High because of all the
supply chain issues because of
everything that we saw during that time
hard to get stuff that came up that came
down significantly and you know there is
a worry that oh it's too low now and now
suddenly we are going to dis Beyond
disinflation into deflation if the
suppliers if the manufacturers if the
builders are not doing well that
translates to jobs and that's why it's
important you might say I don't care
about a PPI well there is a story that
is told within that PPI producer price
index that does make a big difference so
keep that in mind then we have the
Consumer Price Index CPI while it
doesn't measure what's going on with you
when you go to the store you're paying
more than ever before for just about
everything then there's the shrink
flation that's on top of it then there's
the skimp flation which is like hey
let's put some sawdust in the sandwich
and let's fill it up that kind of thing
one by one by one actually a lot of
prices when you factor in everything in
that respect think have doubled in just
a few years so we know that there is an
actual real inflationary problem however
do you think that JP Morgan and the
Federal Reserve and all that do you
think they're going to look at real
stats they're going to factor in
inflation shrinkflation skimp plate
never they're never going to factor that
in so you got to take that into account
and if you don't understand the two
stories you do not have the full picture
and you are not informed here at this
channel if you are willing to stick with
me I will bring you all of the data that
you need all right looking at this you
could see where it has gone and it kind
of levels out around this area or should
say chops around in this area of 3.4%
has not gone towards the 2% Target we'll
see what happens in the coming months
like I said producer price index has an
impact but at the same time producer
price index includes things that you
wouldn't think are there and so we'll
see over these coming months one thing
that has come down in a year-over-year
is shelter rent inflation year-over-year
change it isn't going up at the same
Pace it was before and that's an
important note okay well that's going to
show up in the stats why because your
shelter your rent is a big component at
the same time okay it's a big component
of like when they do the measurements
including it cpis and all that but in
reality it's such a large percentage of
your income and it depends on where you
live and so on but many people pay
almost all of it when you look at it on
the this one thing where they live the
bills that they PID for the home the
insurance and so on and so we know that
that is very key and important to keep
in mind shelter rent rents are going up
there have been examples like on a
yearly basis you look at over a year
how many times have we seen rent decline
in the United States there is one
example of that it's after the financial
crisis housing crisis where for a brief
period and for you know overall a small
amount uh that prices did in fact
decline but that's a very rare event
keep that in mind okay interesting note
when we factor in M2 that's the money
supply comparing that with the CPI
that's the Blue Line okay CPI Blue Line
ppi is in there as well which by the way
has gone down considerably from the top
and the pce okay so in general the
inflation rates have come down and what
we know is that this corresponds to the
money
supply no question about that right also
must note that this is the
year-over-year change always make it
very clear whenever you're looking at
this data or you're seeing it from
another YouTuber M2 are you looking at
the actual M2 or are you looking at the
year-over-year
change because that's the thing that has
come down considerably not necessarily
the money supply
itself also factor in that M2 itself
went up like crazy during the years
after uh you know 2020 and Beyond so
getting back to trend line reversion to
the mean we would expect it to decline a
lot even if you know it still doesn't
hit back to that trend line it still got
a long way to go down what we're seeing
here is that the expectation is that
inflation rates based on M2 should be
declining we don't know though does M2
come up these are supposed to be
correlated the money supply and
inflation correlated but there is a very
mixed picture right here and I would
like to know what you think about this
does M2 you know let's just say starting
to that cash out there is there some
sort of stimulus in the cards coming in
2024 or does the CPI decline
considerably that's what I want to know
from you in the comment section let's
get that conversation going there PPI
you could see that it is on a month over
month basis has declined producer prices
but on a year-over-year basis it's uh up
slightly at 1% okay so watch that very
carefully because that does determine
what happens later with consumers you
got extreme examples like in Argentina
poised to surpass Venezuela with
a% inflation crisis you can't fix
inflation without very difficult uh
times it's going to happen that's the
only way you have to have that pain just
like you got to rip that bandid off it's
got to happen because when you print all
the money when you print all that money
you got a problem when you devalue your
money you will pay the price you suffer
the consequences never allow them with
straight face never allow them to get
away with the devaluation of your
currency one way shape or form you're
going to pay you pay through directly
through taxation where they're where
they're doing this thing it's called
income tax where you work real hard but
you don't get paid until July
you got to think of it like that don't
think of it as ah a lot of my paycheck
came out you work for free you go to
work every single day in traffic dealing
with your boss dealing with all this and
you don't get paid until July
1 that's how that's that that mentality
you got to understand what that is you
got slave labor going on the first half
of that
year and if you put your p in like put
yourself into that perspect perspective
that should make a little shift as to hm
am I what I'm doing here is this the
best thing that I can be should I be
looking around and trying to find you
know other streams other
Solutions that's up to
you this is basically just showing the
food index coming way off the top great
news positive news food prices on the
index have come down why because the you
know the rice situation other things
crop failures this and that that was
there's no question that was that was a
big problem a lot of that has eased what
happened with Ukraine with the grain
there a lot of that has eased as well
those come down but for the average
person especially in the west they're
experiencing higher food costs today
than last year than the year before than
the year before so they're paying more
okay and you just look at it in this the
UN when food and agriculture world food
price year overy year it's down oh yeah
but do you see that at the store likely
not overall when you look at the average
basket I mean you see it I've seen the
you know the the videos online and I've
seen the post this is $100 of food and
they show like six items there and it's
just what you know what happened well
the dev the devaluation of the currency
the dollar came down at the same time
there's problems too there's the you
know some call it the greed flation or
what have you of course companies want
to make as much profit as they possibly
can that's no doubt but we can't like we
can't ignore the the the fundamental
first problem and that is when you have
a central bank that prints money you
will devalue your
currency Argentina is an extreme example
of problems fiscal problems monetary
problems inflation gets hot what do we
do oh we try this we try this we try
this we try this inflation gets worse
try this try this oh we could put a
bandaid on it and it doesn't work rate
cut expectations in 2024 this is what's
coming my friends you got to understand
this that they will quotequote fix the
problem by kicking the can down the road
by devaluing the currency much further
pain will come in the form of deflation
of
disinflation of depression whatever
recession when these instances occur you
then then get this situation where oh we
need to intervene and now what do we do
we Crush people we crush them and we do
that we create a divide in between the
rich and the poor by the Central Bank
the central bank was created to ensure
that there are only a few Elite families
at the top and every so often we slam
everybody down but all along the way
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
because these families they don't think
in terms of like you do they don't think
in terms of uh you know I need to be
good over the next you know year or two
they're not think they're thinking a,
100 years a thousand years that's the
way that they think and they created the
Federal Reserve in order to make sure
that they maintain that Monopoly and
they've done a great job of that
Monopoly let me tell you and so whether
or not it happens in March or later on
in the year it looks like it's very
likely
unless you know we we get stuck in this
stage of H you know inflation's a little
too hot we can't do it right now maybe
we'll do it later and so on but
quantitative tightening can certainly uh
slow down why there are many many
factors covered in previous videos they
can't really get around this uh because
uh btfp because the Reserve reples I
mean there's a lot of things I covered
before interest rate hikes won't Crush
Canadians as they cope with loan
renewals Banks say that's right oh
they're going to be all good yeah it's
double the the price that they were
paying before but they'll cope with it
oh I'm sure they'll cope maybe with a
bottle of alcohol or something look this
is the situation we're in right
now I see what's going on I look at this
different countries I'm analyzing it all
and when you realize that there's this
two stories happening simultaneously
you're going to figure it out wait a
second now we got to understand this and
then we make the decisions based on it I
hope it made sense in this video you let
me know if it didn't if it did you got
to get your money right you got to get
your situation in order because things
get more difficult from here on in you
got to realize that there are things
that you can do take action on all right
people that are in my group just before
I'm recording this video I had my
finance Friday
group we we went through and we looked
at the current conditions we looked at
what could potentially do well that's
what it's all about on the finance
Friday and then the Sundays what we have
is business Sundays where we look at at
this for two hours by the way both of
these sessions two hours where we get
into the depths of how to build an
online business why do we want an online
business because it's infinitely
scalable so that if we end up out of
work or the economy around us is not
doing well we can be selling to
different places different platforms
different parts of the world currency
diversification geographical
diversification and the ability to get
up and go because you never know what's
going to happen these things
all in the link in the description uh I
hope you join I hope you get on that and
um you know I just appreciate you being
here there's going to come a time at
some point in the near future where the
YouTube videos will probably stop uh at
some point so you know I want to get you
into the the classes which is something
I want to continue doing so you know you
let me know I'll uh see you in the next
one take care